Feature/add-kafka-pubsub-schema-registry (#3946)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/reference/components-reference/supported-pubsub/setup-apache-kafka.md

      }'
```

## Avro Schema Registry serialization/deserialization

> You can configure publishers/subscribers to publish/consume data encoded using [Avro binary serialization](https://avro.apache.org/docs/), leveraging an [Apache Schema Registry](https://developer.confluent.io/courses/apache-kafka/schema-registry/) (e.g. [Confluent Schema Registry](https://developer.confluent.io/courses/apache-kafka/schema-registry/), [Apicurio](https://www.apicur.io/registry/))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure pub/sub to publish or consume data encoded using [Avro binary serialization](https://avro.apache.org/docs/), leveraging an [Apache Schema Registry](https://developer.confluent.io/courses/apache-kafka/schema-registry/) (for example, [Confluent Schema Registry](https://developer.confluent.io/courses/apache-kafka/schema-registry/), [Apicurio](https://www.apicur.io/registry/)).
```

### Configuration

> - The kafka pubsub component metadata must at least have the schema registry URL defined, and API key/secret if applicable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

{{% alert title="Important" color="warning" %}}
Currently, only message value serialization/deserialization is supported. Since cloud events are not supported, the `rawPayload=true` metadata must be passed.
{{% /alert %}}

When configuring the Kafka pub/sub component metadata, you must define:
- The schema registry URL 
- The API key/secret, if applicable
```

> - Only message value serialization/deserialization is supported at the moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Cloud events are not supported. Therefore, the `rawPayload=true` metadata must be passed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Schema subjects are automatically derived from topic names, using standard naming convention:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Schema subjects are automatically derived from topic names, using the standard naming convention. For example, for a topic named `my-topic`, the schema subject will be `my-topic-value`.
```

>   - e.g. given topic `my-topic`, the schema subject will be `my-topic-value`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> - When interacting with the message payload within the service, it will be in JSON format. The payload will be transparently serialized/deserialized within the Dapr component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When interacting with the message payload within the service, it will be in JSON format. The payload will be transparently serialized/deserialized within the Dapr component.
```

>   - Date/Datetime fields must be passed as their [Epoch Unix timestamp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time) equivalent (rather than typical Iso8601)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Date/Datetime fields must be passed as their [Epoch Unix timestamp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time) equivalent (rather than typical Iso8601). For example:
```

>   - E.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     - `2024-01-10T04:36:05.986Z` should be passed as `1704861365986`. Number of milliseconds since Jan 1st, 1970

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `2024-01-10T04:36:05.986Z` should be passed as `1704861365986` (the number of milliseconds since Jan 1st, 1970)
```

>     - `2024-01-10` should be passed as `19732`. Number of days since Jan 1st, 1970

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `2024-01-10` should be passed as `19732` (the number of days since Jan 1st, 1970)
```

### Publishing Avro messages

> - In order to indicate to the kafka pubsub component that the message should be using avro serialization, the `valueSchemaType` metadata must be set to `Avro`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to indicate to the Kafka pub/sub component that the message should be using Avro serialization, the `valueSchemaType` metadata must be set to `Avro`.
```

{{< tabs curl "Python SDK">}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -X "POST" http://localhost:3500/v1.0/publish/pubsub/my-topic?metadata.rawPayload=true&metadata.valueSchemaType=Avro -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"order_number": "345", "created_date": 1704861365986}'
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}
```python
from dapr.clients import DaprClient

with DaprClient() as d:
    req_data = {
        'order_number': '345',
        'created_date': 1704861365986
    }
    # Create a typed message with content type and body
    resp = d.publish_event(
        pubsub_name='pubsub',
        topic_name='my-topic',
        data=json.dumps(req_data),
        publish_metadata={'rawPayload': 'true', 'valueSchemaType': 'Avro'}
    )
    # Print the request
    print(req_data, flush=True)
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### Subscribing to Avro topics

> - In order to indicate to the kafka pubsub component that the message should be deserialized using avro, the `valueSchemaType` metadata must be set to `Avro` in the subscription metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to indicate to the Kafka pub/sub component that the message should be deserialized using Avro, the `valueSchemaType` metadata must be set to `Avro` in the subscription metadata.
```

      }'
```

## Avro Schema Registry serialization/deserialization
You can configure pub/sub to publish or consume data encoded using [Avro binary serialization](https://avro.apache.org/docs/), leveraging an [Apache Schema Registry](https://developer.confluent.io/courses/apache-kafka/schema-registry/) (for example, [Confluent Schema Registry](https://developer.confluent.io/courses/apache-kafka/schema-registry/), [Apicurio](https://www.apicur.io/registry/)).

### Configuration

{{% alert title="Important" color="warning" %}}
Currently, only message value serialization/deserialization is supported. Since cloud events are not supported, the `rawPayload=true` metadata must be passed.
{{% /alert %}}

When configuring the Kafka pub/sub component metadata, you must define:
- The schema registry URL 
- The API key/secret, if applicable

Schema subjects are automatically derived from topic names, using the standard naming convention. For example, for a topic named `my-topic`, the schema subject will be `my-topic-value`.

> When interacting with the message payload within the service, it will be in JSON format. The payload will be transparently serialized/deserialized within the Dapr component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When interacting with the message payload within the service, it is in JSON format. The payload is transparently serialized/deserialized within the Dapr component.
```

Date/Datetime fields must be passed as their [Epoch Unix timestamp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time) equivalent (rather than typical Iso8601). For example:
- `2024-01-10T04:36:05.986Z` should be passed as `1704861365986` (the number of milliseconds since Jan 1st, 1970)
- `2024-01-10` should be passed as `19732` (the number of days since Jan 1st, 1970)

### Publishing Avro messages

> In order to indicate to the Kafka pub/sub component that the message should be using Avro serialization, the `valueSchemaType` metadata must be set to `Avro`.

Reviewer 2: Should the `valueSchemaType` metadata be defined in the Spec Metadata fields https://docs.dapr.io/reference/components-reference/supported-pubsub/setup-apache-kafka/#spec-metadata-fields?
I did not see this here, is this missing and is this something that was added for this PR?

Author: `valueSchemaType` is NOT a spec metadata but a metadata field that you can set within the topic subscription and the publish metadata, similar to the `rawPayload` metadata

Reviewer 2: I see. So an example would be

`curl -X "POST" http://localhost:3500/v1.0/publish/pubsub/TOPIC_A?metadata.valueSchemaType=Avro -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"order-number": "345"}'`

It is always useful to give an example of some form to help. Would the above be correct?

Author: The example is below actually

{{< tabs curl "Python SDK">}}

{{% codetab %}}
```bash
curl -X "POST" http://localhost:3500/v1.0/publish/pubsub/my-topic?metadata.rawPayload=true&metadata.valueSchemaType=Avro -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"order_number": "345", "created_date": 1704861365986}'
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}
```python
from dapr.clients import DaprClient

with DaprClient() as d:
    req_data = {
        'order_number': '345',
        'created_date': 1704861365986
    }
    # Create a typed message with content type and body
    resp = d.publish_event(
        pubsub_name='pubsub',
        topic_name='my-topic',
        data=json.dumps(req_data),
        publish_metadata={'rawPayload': 'true', 'valueSchemaType': 'Avro'}
    )
    # Print the request
    print(req_data, flush=True)
```
{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### Subscribing to Avro topics

> In order to indicate to the Kafka pub/sub component that the message should be deserialized using Avro, the `valueSchemaType` metadata must be set to `Avro` in the subscription metadata.

Reviewer 2: Same comment here although in this case this is the first example of a subscription specific metadata field for a component. All the other general ones are for subscriptions are captured here https://docs.dapr.io/reference/resource-specs/subscription-schema/.
No suggestions to change here, other than what you have now.
